ADIS is an Ada Joint Program Office sponsored effort to provide an Ada
interface to the IEEE 1278 Distributed Interactive Simulation (DIS) protocols.
The project was developed in Ada 83 (MIL-STD-1815).  ADIS consists of three
components: the DIS Gateway (DG), the DIS Library (DL), and the Ordnance Server
(OS).

The DG is a software-only interface solution designed to facilitate the
connection of one or more simulations to a DIS network.  The DG is implemented
as a client-server architecture, allowing multiple clients to communicate over
a DIS network via a single UDP port.  This feature is not available in the
majority of the network interface systems currently available.  Both the DG
client and server can be controlled using a graphical user interface (GUI). 
The GUI allows the user to input a variety of network variables, including
exercise ID and UDP port number.

The DL contains a variety of routines common to DIS applications.  The routines
available from the library include procedures that filter and sort by distance,
filter by orientation, perform coordinate conversions, and perform smoothing
on entity positions.  The routines that filter and sort by distance, and filter
by orientation are common to applications such as visual and audio servers,
which prioritize entities based on relative location and orientation.  Almost
all DIS applications perform some type of coordinate conversion, hence the DL
contains routines to perform the most common types of these conversions.

The OS provides distributed munition fly-outs for one or more simulations on a
DIS network.  The OS listens for fire PDUs sent by specific entities on a
network, and begins modeling a munition when a fire PDU describing the
munitions type, location and velocity is received.  The ordnance server models
a variety of munitions, including bombs and rockets.  Munition parameters such
as burn rate and fuse type are input to the OS via a GUI.  Simulation control
parameters, such as start, stop, freeze, and resume can also be input through
the GUI.  The OS also provides a single step mode, which can be very useful for
debugging.  The OS software also contains bindings to the ModSAF terrain 
database interface.


There is also a set of packages that define the DIS protocol data units and
provide functions for manipulating them.  Additionally a Motif widget toolkit
is included that can be used independently of the ADIS software.


There are four files in the ADIS distribution:

    README                This file
    ADIS-src.zip          Source code for the ADIS project
    ADIS-doc.zip          Documentation for the project
    ADIS-bin.zip          Binaries for the DIS Gateway Server and its
                          Graphical User Interface

The documentation for the project is distributed in several different formats
in the hopes that at least one of them is usable by your site.  Documentation
includes MIL-STD-2167A Software Requirements Specification (SRS), Interface
Requirements Specification (IRS), and Software Design Document (SDD).  There
is also a Software Reference Manual (SRM) for each component of ADIS.  For
most applications, the SRM will be the most useful document.  The formats
available consist of Word for Windows 2.0 (WFW, using .DOC for an extension),
Rich Text Format (RTF, a common format supported by most WYSIWYG editors),
ASCII (plain text, using .TXT for an extension), and PostScript (PS).  Not
all formats are provided for all documents -- for instance, an ASCII version
of the MIL-STD-2167A documents would lose all the diagrams, which are very
important in such documentation.  On the other hand, ASCII versions of the
SRMs are provided, so that they can be viewed and searched online by
programmers.  The following table shows the formats provided for each type
of documentation:

           WFW    RTF    ASCII    PS

    SRS     X      X       -      -
    IRS     X      X       -      -
    SDD     X      X       -      -
    SRM     X      -       X      X

        X = provided
        - = not provided

A Makefile is provided to assist in creating the binaries for ADIS.  This may
require editing to conform to your own site's configuration.  Read through the
Makefile, and make any changes required for your site, then type "make".

ADIS software was developed using Silicon Graphics Indigo R4000 machines using
Verdix Ada 6.2.1 under the IRIX operating system, version 5.2.  The Graphical
User Interfaces (GUIs) were developed for X Window version X11R5 using 
Motif 1.2.
